# Digital System For Botany Slides
## who are we
  - We are three students in the Faculty of Science, Ain Shams University who are computer science lovers, <br/> 
    and our goal is to know something about everything and to know everything about something. This is our graduation project and we chose this project for the             students and doctors of the Botany Department to benefit from this project , in the hope that it will help them in their studies and make it easier. And we ask allah for success.
## Team
```
  - Hagar Abdelalim
  - Mahmoud Waheed
  - Rehab Hamdy
  Dr. Dieaa Nasr is the supervisior of our team
  Dr. Alsafa is a doctor in the deparment of plant and she is the owner of the idea and she give us all the information
  ```
## Project
| Background | objective | Description | Skills |  
| ------------- | ------------- | ------------- |  ------------- |
|The department of Botany provides a variety of plant-related slides. These slides are available for loan, however it is difficult to keep track of who has borrowed what and when it is due back|Develop a system for storing and displaying data on plant slides available|Develop an Android/web-based application that allows the user (student, admin, faculty member) to view the slides, search for specific factions, borrow permissible slides (depending on the user type) to study on within a specific time period, and manage slides.|DB , Mobile|
## 15/10/2022  
  - Participations<br/>
     Hagar , Rehab, Mahmoud and Dr.Dieaa
  - Notes
    - Dieaa explain some project details.<br/>
    - the projrct is hard and need a lot of work.<br/> 
    - this is the third year to make this project , because in the past 2 year some circumstance habppened and Unfortunately they didn't compelet the project.<br/>
    - the participation must have this skills to make this project.<br/>
        - hard workers.<br/>
        - excellent in Database
        - have the ability to learn any new skills
  - Tasks
    - [x] We will meet Dr.Alsafa on Tuseday, 18/10/2022 to know all details about the project
## 18/10/2022
  - Participations<br/>
       Mahmoud, Hagar, Rehab, Dr.Alsafa and Dr.Dieaa
  - what we did
      - we go to Dr.Alsafa in her office <br/>
      - she explained some details about the system which she did and currently used in botany department<br/>
      - she told us that she built a total system for all plants slides and she start from scratch<br/>
      - she explained how she did this system and how she organized the slides <br/>
      - she brought some hard copy of pdfs and explained the slides dividsion<br/>
      - then we went to botany department and we saw all slides and boxes and how she orgainzed them in actual life <br/> 
  - Notes
      - As students it is very hard to understand the total system.<br/>
      - not all informations id clear and we need more time.<br/>
      - this database will take a lot of time to made this.<br/>
  - Tasks
      - [x] Hagar created a whatsApp group and added Dr.Dieaa and Dr.Alsafa. <br/>
      - [x] we will make database analysts, we made requirement gathering. 
      - [x] We will analyze and organize the requirements and interpreted statistical information based on the data.
## 20/10/2022
  - Participations<br/>
       Rehab,Mahmoud ,Hagar
  - Notes
      - we discussed about the database and how each one us understood the data and requirments of project<br/>.
      - the database is hard the be undertood from the first time<br/>.
      - we still need a lot of other details and data to understand the requirments.<br/>
  - Tasks
      - [x] we will start our jop as a database architect, we start the design phase of database. 
      - [x] each one of us will design the database and we will meet at 24/10/2022 to disccus our designs.
## 24/10/2022
  - Participations<br/>
       Mahmoud , Hagar , Rehab
  - Notes
      - ![fdesign2](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/80859649/199831893-ae40d81c-c088-41d8-b8a9-06b80e2e75cf.jpg)
      - ![fdesign1](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/80859649/199831914-d7915b36-67d4-4c41-b0c9-eebbe1240291.jpg)
      - ![fdesign3](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/80859649/199832079-b06447fd-0399-418c-ab01-094bf13b6aac.jpg)
      - we made this database but it have some problem
          - when we made this design we found that there is a many to many relationship between weak entity and strong entity and we didn't see it before in database , but Mahmoud made search and found that it is natural<br/>.
          - the plants divides into 3 catogary , in each catogary there exist different groups of plants , we thought that the number of plant is unique but in each group she start the number of plants from 1 again.
          - we have no data and we asked Dr.Alsafa to send us the data.
          - we don't know if the person can borrow more than one slide or not
  - Tasks
      - [x] each one of us will search about solution for this prolems.<br/>
      - [x] we ask AS if the person can borrow more than one slide or not
      - [x] we will go to botany deprment again to see the slides and boxes angain because we data still not clear to us 
## 27/10/2022
  - Participations<br/>
      Hagar , Mahmoud , Rehab , Dr.Alsafa
  - Notes
      - Dr.Alsafa sent a excal sheet which have very littel data and we made a design before we went to Dr.Alsafa, but this is a very little part of data , and not the same data which is treat with in actual.<br/>
      - Dr.Alsafa not send us any another data , and this is a big problem for us because every time we decide to make a design we have a big conflict
      - we asked Dr.Alsafa to send data many times but she apologized because she had a problem in her laptop 
      - Design
          - ![hager design](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/80859649/199843193-2f5b18aa-0544-42c4-9492-7e4cb828003f.jpg)
          - ![modified design](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/80859649/199845613-30b670dc-af46-4494-9919-7f6608e1ef0c.jpg)
      - Problems
          - what is the meaning of 1.1
          - how there exist 2 boxes with number 2.1
      - Discussion
          - we went to Dr.Alsafa to ask her about this problems
          - we went to Botany deparment and saw all slides again
          - there is a big problem such that we found that the number of boxes is not the same in all categores, which is mean that all category, and we must make a new design for database.
          - we take a Pictures for slides and boxes
          - Pictures
              - ![data1](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/80859649/199845366-6cd15cb7-0b0f-4ff8-a152-9566f518673b.jpg)
              - ![data2](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/80859649/199845394-4bba8686-9e0f-4bd1-a008-dc18b96194f2.jpg)
              - ![data3](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/80859649/199845434-70b3a5ee-d0de-46d9-8f80-0e23cd59bcf4.jpg)
              - ![data4](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/80859649/199845453-91d4f85b-add0-4b7b-b551-c72c091636d9.jpg)
              - ![data5](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/80859649/199845480-8250aa02-de84-484c-985c-9e07d03e104f.jpg)
              - ![data6](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/80859649/199845503-deeda882-97ac-4ff2-aaf6-faccde1ed2f3.jpg)
              - ![data7](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/80859649/199845524-ba0c1a04-d6b1-43bf-88c5-ce090ec580fb.jpg)
              - ![data8](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/80859649/199845546-628a9fc0-3965-472c-ba35-40a5a90101da.jpg)
              - [data.pdf](https://github.com/hagar-abdelaliem/graduation_project/files/9933441/data.pdf)
      - Tasks
          - [x] make new database 
          - [x] make meeting with Dr.Dieaa on 29/10/2022 in his office , to discuss database desgin 
          - [x] determine what is required in project
## 29/10/2022
  - Participations <br/>
      Dr.Dieaa, Mahmoud , Hagar ,Rehab
  - What we did
      - we met Dr.Dieaa in his office to discuss what we have come to in the design of the Database and the following picture contains what we have come to before               meeting him. 
          - ![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/75702509/199990844-7c0bb587-0cae-468e-86d6-ff775e8e0067.png).
      - Dr.Dieaa informed us of some modifications to our design to make it better and easier to obtain information (For this, thank you, Dr.Dieaa).
  - Notes
      - Despite the many modifications that occurred to the design and every time a defect appeared and we fixed it, we were never disappointed and did not lose our           enthusiasm, but we were happier because we learned a lot from these mistakes. We know very well that as long as there are mistakes, this means that we learn           more.
  - Tasks
      - [x] hold an online meeting to finalize the database design on 2/11/2022.
## 2/11/2022
  - Participations <br/>
      Mahmoud , Hagar ,Rehab
  - What we did
      - We held an online meeting to finalize the database design (Conceptual Schema), It was the best meeting we've ever had, it was full of valuable information and         a broad understanding of the database.
      - We deleted the table of students, admin and doctors and were satisfied with only one table, since the data we are interested in is one for each of them, so             there is no need to make different tables.
  - Problems
      - MW discovered a problem in the table of cells for each plant and found that if we only made the id of the plant and its cells to be the distinctive key                 of this table, this key could be repeated with another plant classification.
          - the solution was that he suggested that we add with them the classification color.
              - ![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/75702509/199990702-034b6147-cbac-42f7-ae47-4712c91ec994.png).
      - RH also discovered another problem with the count of plants, which we previously made it as an attribute of the plant table, but each plant has different              sectors with different counts. Therefore, we will not be able to determine the count of all the sector for each plant separately because the sectors for each          plant are shown in a different table.
          - the solution was to add the count attribute to section type table.
              - ![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/75702509/200062653-cd41e5bc-7a35-4ce2-8e6e-e8e4f1bcd93a.png).
  - Finally, this is what we reached after 6 hours of modifications, discussions and suggestions, and we are really proud of what we have achieved. This is what we got     after working hard for more than two weeks.
      - ![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/75702509/200064585-a26afd6a-6e1a-4a56-8157-d3d75ff635a7.png).
  - Tasks
      - [x] meeting with Dr.Dieaa on 5/11/2022 to present the final database design for the last time before moving on to the next step in our project.
## 5/11/2022
  - Participations <br/>
      Dr.Dieaa, Hagar, Rehab ,Mahmoud  
  - What we did
      - we display our final design and we have some problems 
          - when the student return the sile we must mark the field that this slide has returned, but the search about this student is not easy , so Dr.Dieaa suggested that 
              - we can add attribute form number to the borrow table.  
              - we must add attribute of English name.
              - we will add other attribute of returned data in borrow table.
      - we Finally reached to the final design of database.
  - tasks
      - [x] Mahmoud will add this attributes in the database.
      - [x] untill 23/11/2022 we will collect all informations about firebase untill we finished midterm exams    
## 24/11/2022
  - Participations <br/>
     Hagar, Rehab ,Mahmoud
  - what we do
      - we agree about what we must do.  
  - Tasks
      - [x] Mahmoud will Revision all information about database.
      - [x] Mahmoud will make relational model & make design in workbanch.
      - [x] rehab and hagar will write the documantation of android studio , and how to add dart SDK and flutter.
      - [x] we will download dart SDK and android studio. 
      - [x] Mahmoud will write the documentation of workbanch.
## SQL WorkBach Documentation
  - Mahmoud<br/>
## Android studio documentation
  - rehab & hagar.<br/>
## 27/11/2022
  - Participations <br/>
      Mahmoud , Hagar ,Rehab 
  - What we did
      - we make meeting on microsoft team and we spend 5 hours on making relational model and making database in workbanch
      - we find some problems in database 
          - we move attribute count in slide
          - it was very hard to make the database in workbanch
      - image of workbanch   
      - image of relational model.
          - ![WhatsApp Image 2022-11-27 at 6 59 35 PM](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/116230767/205091126-8397fb99-da0b-422d-8bd6-ae9503cb4378.jpeg)
  - tasks
      - [x] tomorrow we will make meeting to unit versions of dart and flutter.
      - [x] hagar and rehab will make the sign in in firebase.
      - [x] hagar & rehab will search about how we will design tables in firebase & how to make relations between the tables.
## 28/11/2022
  - Participations <br/>
      Hagar ,Rehab, Mahmoud.
  - What we did
      - we make meeting on microsoft and we unit versions of dart and flutter.
      - hagar make empty project and upload it in our githup.
  - tasks
      - [x] rehab will add firebase in our project & will write the documentation of the way to add fireabse to any project.
      - [x] we make models of tables in our project in android studio.
      - [x] we will make meeting in 30/11/2022 to know which model will assign for each of us.
## 30/11/2022       
- Participations <br/>
      Rehab, Mahmoud, Hagar.
- What we did
            
      


